At the moment Rudd 1 acting as P.S. One can ping Rudd of five acting is P.C. to turn off these dead
bugs.
Let's have a look at some show commands.
So first command on rather to show interface tunnel 0 tunnel 0 is up.
The hardware type is tunnel the IP address on the interfaces tended wondered three to one slash 30 the
encapsulation type is tunnel the tunnel sources forwarded Wandered Wandered one tunnel destination is
forwarded one door to the to the protocol and transport is GOP over IP version 4.
Notice the empty view has been reduced for this interface because of the headers used in Jari the empty
you force serial to slash zero or maximum transmission unit for interface to slash a zero is fifteen
hundred points but the empty you for the jury tunnel is 15 14 so 1 5 5 0 minus 1 5 1 4 gives us 36 bytes
because of the additional headers used in jury the empty view is reduced.
In other words only smaller packets can be transmitted across the serial link because of the additional
headers added by GOP originally we only have a single IP header but now we have an additional IP header
called the delivery header as well as the GOP had a and we can see that by doing a y shock capture
so going to capture traffic on serial to slash 1 en route 3
send a ping from Rota 1 acting as P.S. 1 2 out of 5 acting as P.S. 2
Here's the ping I remember originally we would only have a single IP version for header with the payload
but now we have both the GOP header as well as the outer header or delivery header so the original packet
over here as received by at to
doesn't include the jury headers.
So when we do that ping again
this is the first Ethernet interface on rudder to
we can see the ping message with the standard IP version for header and Ethernet header but when that
goes across the serial interface nodes Cisco HDL HTC we see the original header and payload so there's
the ping but notice once again the additional header.
So we've got to the delivery had a as well as the GOP had a so additional headers have been added when
compared to the original packet because of that the empty view is reduced.
You can only send a maximum packet size of 15 14 bytes because of the additional headers.
So once again on serial to slash 0 the empty use fifteen hundred points but on the tunnel interface
it's 15 14 bytes because of the additional headers.
You can also see some information by using the command show IP interface tunnel 0 scrolling up here's
the command tunnel interface 0 0 is up up IP addresses tendered wonder 3 to 1 slash 3 broadcast is thus
empty use 14 76 bytes once again multicast reserved group joined includes 2 2 4 0 0 10 which if you
remember is the multicast group for UI GOP ya job he's able to form a neighbor relationship across this
tunnel interface in a very similar way to how you would form it across a serial interface because this
is a point to point a link logically directly from one writer to the other so as an example show API
GOP neighbor Robert too has a neighbor relationship with Robert a 4 on this IP address and not on this
IP address because the neighbor relationship is formed across the tunnel show IPR GOP topology we have
learnt a round 10 1 2 0 via 10 1 3 2 through tunnel 0 and once again a one is able to ping Rudd of 5
acting as a P.C. when we do a trace to 10 1 2 2 notice the trace goes to a 2 then to write a 4 through
the tunnel and then to write a 5 rod a 3 is not seen at all in the trace because logically write 2 is
directly connected to write a 4 in the same way write a 5 when tracing to 10 1 1 1 since the traffic
to write a 4 then logically to write a 2 and then to write a 1.